# Boston_crime_EDA
I started to analysed this project keeping one thing in my mind. I lived in Boston City for past 10 years but how safe is it compared to any other big cities around the United States? It’s no secret here that Boston is greater than most places on the planet (especially if you ask any Bostonian who is literally comparing it to New York). That’s not just their stance/attitude/ego talking; but in our analysis I  have some serious data just to prove it. 

According to most of the  recent polls and studies published as of today 12/21/2018, from tasty burger/water, shack shake to pedestrian safety(Vision Zero Boston) Boston seems to get better year after year. Vision Zero Boston is Cities commitment to focus the City’s resources on proven strategies to eliminate fatal and serious traffic crashes in the City by 2030, that rate Boston as tops in the nation.When I get a chance to look at Beantown’s incidence of rape (39 per 100,000, putting it third on the list of cities in the survey) and assault (483 per 100,000, fifth on the list of cities in the survey) [**external data Source**] it might seem like a surprisingly dangerous big city.Surprising then is that only 27% of those surveyed as of  end of 2018 said they considered Boston to fairly or very unsafe. According to recent surveys the city’s low murder rate per capita (9 per 100,000) could likely be a contributing factor to this perception.The city also has the second-lowest incidence of vehicle theft at a rate of 258 per 100,000 and fares well on the other crimes rates.   

Is it true to say that Boston was more violent than New York and Seattle, but less violent than Chicago and Las Vegas, according to numbers from the FBI, based on crimes committed back in 2015. As of Today 12/21/18 Nationally, Boston ranked 14 out of 50 according to Us News.After digging up and analysing the data what we found out that in recent numbers from the Boston Police Department, or BPD, show that violent crime, as well as property crime, has continued to drop, and has been steadily dropping for past years.  My Goal was to build R shiny app to see the results without digging too much in data. Took a lot of help from Online Community to do EDA as well as to built the R Shiny App. Hope you guys enjoy reading these.  I have successfully built R shiny app which covers crime map based on murders, aggravated assaults, and robberies, as well as property crimes such as burglaries, auto thefts, larcenies, and arson for data of date between August 2015 till today.

Crimes such as sexual assaults and rapes have not been included because of a lack of data.   ## Executive Summary  Public safety is vital to public health and happiness, and a state's safety can be a crucial factor in deciding where to relocate your family.The map shows that Mattapan,Roxbury, and Dorchester have had more aggravated assaults than other neighborhoods. Roxbury, downtown, and Dorchester had more robberies than other sections of the city. Back Bay, the South End, and downtown suffered more larcenies. In 2017 the rate of violent crime in Massachusetts fell for the sixth year in a row and dropped below national levels for the second time since 2016, according to FBI statistics. 

In 2017, there were 358 incidents of violent crime per 100,000 people in Massachusetts, compared to the national rate of 394 per 100,000 people, according to data published in late September.The FBI defines violent crime as homicide, rape, robbery, and aggravated assault. The bureau said it calculates crime rates using figures voluntarily provided by law enforcement agencies, and tallies estimates when it doesn’t receive a complete year’s worth of data. **The overall crime rate in Boston is equal to the national average. For every 100,000 people, there are 7.56 daily crimes that occur in Boston. Boston is safer than 14% of the cities in the United States.  In Boston you have a 1 in 37 chance of becoming a victim of any crime.  The number of total year over year crimes in Boston has decreased by 9%.** 

> I  want to highlight what the City of Boston says about the data they provide:  “Although the City has made reasonable efforts to provide accurate data, the City makes no representations or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or currency of the information provided. The City of Boston provides this data as is and with all faults, and makes no warranty of any kind. Each user is responsible for determining the suitability of the data for their intended use or purpose.”

## Link for R shiny app is:

https://cloudstudio.shinyapps.io/github/
